Apple Coffee Cake
Emeril Lagasse
Easy
1 stick plus 2 teaspoons unsalted butter 1 1/2 cups packed light brown sugar 2 large egg 2 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon baking soda 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 cup sour cream 1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 2 cups peeled cored and chopped apple 1/2 cup packed light brown sugar 1/2 cup all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 4 tablespoons unsalted butter softened 1/2 cup packed light brown sugar 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 2 tablespoons water
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly grease a 13 by 9-inch glass baking dish with 2 teaspoons of the butter.In a large bowl, cream together the remaining stick of butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Add the eggs 1 at a time, beating after the addition of each. In a separate bowl or on a piece of parchment, sift together the flour, baking soda, cinnamon, and salt. Add to the wet ingredients, alternating with the sour cream and vanilla. Fold in the apples. Pour into the prepared baking dish, spreading out to the edges.To make the topping, in a bowl, combine the sugar, flour, cinnamon, and butter, and mix until it resembles coarse crumbs. Sprinkle the topping over the cake and bake until golden brown and set, 35 to 40 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool on a wire rack for at least 10 minutes.To make the glaze, in a bowl, combine the sugar, vanilla, and water and mix until smooth. Drizzle the cake with the glaze and let harden slightly. Serve warm.
Banana Puddin
Trisha Yearwood
Easy
4 large egg 3/4 cup sugar 3 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon plus a pinch salt 2 cups whole milk 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 30 to 40 vanilla wafer 3 to 4 medium ripe banana
Separate the yolks from the whites of 3 of the eggs; set aside the whites. Add the remaining whole egg to the yolks.In a saucepan, whisk together 1/2 cup sugar, the flour and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Stir in the whole egg and 3 yolks, and then stir in the milk. Cook uncovered, stirring often, until the mixture thickens, about 10 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir in the vanilla.Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F.Spread a thin layer of the pudding in a 1 1/2-quart casserole dish. Arrange a layer of vanilla wafers on top of the pudding. Thinly slice the bananas crosswise, about 1/8 inch thick, and arrange a layer of banana slices over the wafers. Spread one-third of the remaining pudding over the bananas and continue layering wafers, bananas and pudding, ending with pudding.To make the meringue, beat the reserved egg whites with a pinch of salt until they are stiff. Gradually beat in the remaining 1/4 cup sugar and continue beating until the whites will not slide out of the mixing bowl when it is tilted.Spread the meringue over the pudding with a spatula, making a few decorative peaks on top, and bake until the meringue is lightly browned, 5 minutes.
Blackberry Cobbler
Ree Drummond
Easy
1/2 stick butter melted plus more for greasing pan 1 1/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons sugar 1 cup self-rising flour 1 cup whole milk 2 cups fresh (or frozen) blackberries Whipped cream and/or ice cream for serving
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease a 3-quart baking dish with butter.In a medium bowl, whisk 1 cup sugar with the flour and milk. Whisk in the melted butter.Rinse the blackberries and pat them dry. Pour the batter into the baking dish. Sprinkle the blackberries evenly over the top of the batter. Sprinkle 1/4 cup sugar over the blackberries. Bake until golden brown and bubbly, about 1 hour. When 10 minutes of the cooking time remains, sprinkle the remaining 2 tablespoons sugar over the top. Top with whipped cream or ice cream . . . or both!
Chocolate Caramel Crunch Pie
Giada De Laurentiis
Easy
9 whole graham cracker 6 tablespoons unsalted butter melted 1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder 1/4 teaspoon kosher salt 28 ounces store-bought dulce de leche preferably Trader Joes 1 1/2 cups chopped toasted walnuts 1/2 cup bittersweet chocolate chunks such as Scharffen Berger 70-percent 1/2 teaspoon grated orange zest 1/2 teaspoon flake salt such as Maldon 1 cup heavy cream 1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract Unsweetened chocolate
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Break the graham crackers into small pieces and place in a food processor. Pulse to blend into fine crumbs. Add the butter, cocoa powder and salt and pulse, in 2 second intervals, until combined and the consistency of wet sand. Press the mixture into and up the sides of a 9-inch pie plate. Bake until toasted and fragrant, about 8 minutes. Cool before filling, about 15 minutes.Scoop the dulce de leche into a medium bowl. Using a rubber spatula, fold in the walnuts, chocolate chunks and orange zest. Pour the filling into the prepared pie shell and refrigerate until chilled all the way through and set, about 3 hours.Just before serving, use a hand-mixer to whip the heavy cream and vanilla in a medium until soft peaks form. Sprinkle the flake salt on the pie, top with the whipped cream and grate the unsweetened chocolate over the top.
Chocolate Cheesecake
Nigella Lawson
Intermediate
1 1/3 cups graham cracker crumb 1/2 stick butter 1 tablespoon cocoa 6 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate chopped small 2 1/2 cups cream cheese 3/4 cup superfine sugar 1 tablespoon custard powder 3 large egg 3 large egg yolks 2/3 cup sour cream 1/2 teaspoon cocoa dissolved in 1 tablespoon hot water 3 ounces bittersweet chocolate finely chopped1/2 cup heavy cream 1 teaspoon dark corn syrup 9-inch spring form pan
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.To make the base, process the graham crackers to make rough crumbs and then add the butter and cocoa. Process again until it makes damp, clumping crumbs and then tip them into the pan. Press the crumbs into the bottom of the pan to make an even base and put into the freezer while you make the filling.Sit the springform tin in a roasting pan and pour in the cheesecake filling. The top of the cheesecake should be set, but the underneath should still have a wobble to it.Peel away the foil and cling film wrapping and sit the cheesecake in its tin on a rack to cool. Let it lose its chill before unspringing the cheesecake to serve.
Chocolate Lava Cakes
Ree Drummond2
Easy
Baking spray for spraying custard cups 1 stick butter 2 ounces bittersweet chocolate 2 ounces semisweet chocolate 1 1/4 cups powdered sugar 2 whole egg 3 egg yolk 1 teaspoon vanilla 1/2 cup all-purpose flour
Microwave the butter, bittersweet chocolate and semisweet chocolate in a large bowl on high until the butter is melted, about 1 minute. Whisk until the chocolate is also melted. Stir in the sugar until well blended. Whisk in the eggs and egg yolks, then add the vanilla. Stir in the flour. Divide the mixture among the custard cups.Bake until the sides are firm and the centers are soft, about 13 minutes. Let stand 1 minute. Invert on individual plates while warm and serve with vanilla ice cream.
Chocolate Pudding
Tyler Florence
Easy
2 cups whole milk 1/2 cup sugar 1/3 cup natural cocoa powder 4 teaspoons cornstarch 3 large egg yolks 2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract 1/4 teaspoon fine salt 3/4 cup whipping cream
Put 1 1/2 cups of the milk, the sugar, and the cocoa in a nonreactive saucepan. Bring to a simmer, over medium-high heat. Remove from the heat.Meanwhile, whisk the remaining 1/2 cup of the milk,. Return to the saucepan and cook over medium-high heat whisking constantly, until the pudding comes to a full boil. Just before serving pour the cream into a chilled bowl. Whip the cream with a whisk or a hand held mixer, and continue beating until soft peaks form. Take care not to over-beat the cream or it will be grainy. Serve each pudding with a dollop of whipped cream on top.
Chocolate Souffle
Geoffrey Zakarian
Easy
2 sticks butter plus extra to butter the ramekins 1 1/3 cups granulated sugar plus 15 tablespoons (1 per ramekin) 12 egg whites 1/3 teaspoon cream of tartar 3 2/3 cups 61 percent semisweet chocolate such as Valrhona
Butter the ramekins and pour 1 tablespoon of granulated sugar in each. Turn them to let the sugar stick to the butter, and then pour out the excess. Place the ramekins on a sheet pan.Slowly add 1 1/3 cups of the granulated sugar and the cream of tartar. Continue to whisk until medium peaks form.Then, remove the chocolate from the double boiler and add the egg yolks, one at a time, stirring until smooth. Fold the egg white mixture into the chocolate a little at a time. Add the batter to the buttered and sugared ramekins, filling them to the top. Bake for about 15 minutes.
Coconut Cake
Ina Garten
Intermediate
3/4 pound (3 sticks) unsalted butter at room temperature plus more for greasing the pans 2 cups sugar5 extra-large egg at room temperature 1 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract 1 1/2 teaspoons pure almond extract 3 cups all-purpose flour plus more for dusting the pans 1 teaspoon baking powder 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt 1 cup milk 4 ounces sweetened shredded coconut 1 pound cream cheese at room temperature
In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, cream the butter and sugar on medium-high speed for 3 to 5 minutes, until light yellow and fluffy. Add the vanilla and almond extracts and mix well.With the mixer on low speed, alternately add the dry ingredients and the milk to the batter in 3 parts, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Mix until just combined. Fold in the 4 ounces of coconut with a rubber spatula.Cool on a baking rack for 30 minutes, then turn the cakes out onto a baking rack to finish cooling.Add the confectioners' sugar and mix until just smooth (don't whip!).To decorate the cake, sprinkle the top with coconut and lightly press more coconut onto the sides
Creme Brulee
Ina Garten2
Intermediate
1 extra-large egg 4 extra-large egg yolk 1/2 cup sugar plus 1 tablespoon for each serving 3 cups heavy cream 1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 1 tablespoon orange liqueur
mix the egg, egg yolks, and 1/2 cup of the sugar together on low speed until just combined. Meanwhile, scald the cream in a small saucepan until it's very hot to the touch but not boiled. With the mixer on low speed, slowly add the cream to the eggs. Add the vanilla and orange liqueur and pour into 6 to 8-ounce ramekins until almost full.Bake for 35 to 40 minutes, until the custards are set when gently shaken. Remove the custards from the water bath, cool to room temperature, and refrigerate until firm.To serve, spread 1 tablespoon of sugar evenly on the top of each ramekin and heat with a kitchen blowtorch until the sugar carmelizes evenly. 
Dark Chocolate Mousse
Bobby Flay
Easy
5 1/4 ounces bittersweet chocolate coarsely chopped 14 ounces cold heavy cream 3 large egg whites 1 -ounce sugar Sweetened whipped cream
Place chocolate in a large bowl set over a bain marie or in a double boiler at a low simmer. Stir chocolate until melted. Turn off the heat and let stand.Beat the cream over ice until it forms soft peaks. Set aside and hold at room temperature. With a mixer, whip egg to soft peaks. Gradually add the sugar and continue whipping until firm.Cover the mousse and refrigerate for approximately 1 hour or until set. Serve in goblets topped with more whipped cream and shaved chocolate, if desired.
Fudge Wreath
Rachael Ray
Easy
1 (12-ounce) bag semisweet chocolate morsels 9 ounces (3/4 of a 12-ounce bag) butterscotch morsels 1 (14-ounce) can sweetened condensed milk 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 (8-ounce) can walnut halves 1/2 cup (a couple of handfuls) currants 8 -inch cake pan lightly greased with softened butter Candied cherries red and green for garnish optional
Add chips and milk and stir until chips are melted and milk combined. Save the empty condensed milk can. Stir in vanilla and remove fudge from heat. Add nuts and currants and stir in immediately.Spoon fudge into pan around can, making sure to recenter can if it drifts.Garnish can only be added in the first minute or 2 the fudge is in the pan, so work quickly. Decorate your wreath with "holly" made from cut candied red and green cherries. A wreath left plain can be garnished with a pretty fabric bow when serving. Chill covered in the refrigerator and slice fudge very thin when ready to serve, a little goes a long way.
Lemon Tart
Geoffrey Zakarian2
Easy
1/2 cup freshly squeezed lemon juice Zest of 1 lemon (about 2 teaspoons) 3 egg 2/3 cup sugar 1/4 teaspoon sea salt 6 tablespoons butter One 9-inch tart shell homemade or store-bought baked Dollop whipped creme fraiche Dollop whipped cream
Heat the lemon juice and zest in a small saucepan over medium-high heat until just boiling. Remove from the heat.Whisk the eggs, sugar and salt together in a medium saucepan until well combined. Slowly drizzle the eggs into the lemon mixture, whisking constantly.Cook the egg mixture over medium heat, stirring constantly with a rubber spatula, until the custard is thick, about 8 minutes. Remove the custard from the heat and stir in the butter. Once all of the butter melts and is fully incorporated, strain the custard through a fine mesh sieve into the tart shell.
Raspberry Cheesecake
Ina Garten3
Intermediate
1 1/2 cups graham cracker crumb (10 cracker) 1 tablespoon sugar 6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter melted 2 1/2 pounds cream cheese at room temperature 1 1/2 cups sugar 5 whole extra-large egg at room temperature 2 extra-large egg yolks at room temperature 1/4 cup sour cream 1 cup red jelly (not jam)  such as currant  raspberry or strawberry 3 half-pints fresh raspberries
To make the crust, combine the graham crackers, sugar, and melted butter until moistened. Pour into a 9-inch springform pan. With your hands, press the crumbs into the bottom of the pan and about 1-inch up the sides. Bake for 8 minutes. Cool to room temperature.To make the filling, cream the cream cheese and sugar in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle attachment on medium-high speed until light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Reduce the speed of the mixer to medium and add the eggs and egg yolks, 2 at a time, mixing well. Scrape down the bowl and beater, as necessary. With the mixer on low, add the sour cream, lemon zest, and vanilla. Mix thoroughly and pour into the cooled crust. To make the topping, melt the jelly in a small pan over low heat. In a bowl, toss the raspberries and the warm jelly gently until well mixed. Arrange the berries on top of the cake.
Yogurt and Fruit Parfaits
Rachael Ray2
Easy
3 cups vanilla nonfat yogurt 1 cup fresh or defrosted frozen strawberries in juice 1 pint fresh black berries  or blueberrie 1 cup good quality granola
Layer 1/3 cup vanilla yogurt into the bottom each of 4 tall glasses. Combine defrosted strawberries and juice with fresh berries. Alternate layers of fruit and granola with yogurt until glasses are filled to the top. Serve parfaits immediately to keep granola crunchy.